Psychiatry Research Machine Learning Approach to Enhance Anxiety Diagnosis Using Structural MRI Fails When Classifying Unseen Data: Results from a Large Developmental Cohort --Manuscript Draft-- Manuscript Number: PSY-D-- Article Type: Full Length Article Keywords: Anxiety; Anxiety disorders; Adolescent; Machine learning; MRI Abstract: Objective To investigate the potential of utilizing structural magnetic resonance imaging data in the Brazilian High-Risk Cohort for Mental Conditions to predict anxiety disorders using machine learning. Methods youth with any anxiety disorder and healthy controls, aged - years at baseline, were assessed at three timepoints between and . The pooled anxiety disorders group comprised participants diagnosed at any assessment with viable MRI scans, while healthy controls had no psychiatric diagnoses. Structural features extracted with FreeSurfer were used as input for a random forest classifier to predict group membership. Twenty percent of the data was used for validation. The algorithm incorporated feature selection, -fold cross-validation, and ComBat harmonization for site differences. Results The model achieved an accuracy of and an area under the curve of . in the test sample. For the validation sample, the model did not perform better than chance, with metrics close to .. Conclusion While our model could predict anxiety disorders in the test sample, it showed variability between folds and did not generalize to the validation sample, performing at chance levels. The present data highlights the limitations of structural MRI in predicting anxiety disorders in this sample. Powered by Editorial Manager® and ProduXion Manager® from Aries Systems CorporationMachine Learning Approach to Enhance Anxiety Diagnosis Using Structural MRI Fails When Classifying Unseen Data: Results from a Large Developmental Cohort Highlights ● Machine learning was used to predict anxiety in youth using structural MRI data ● The model showed moderate performance on test set but failed on unseen validation set ● The algorithm could not differentiate anxiety disorder participants from controls ● ML pipelines using sMRI show limited diagnostic prediction on this dataset HighlightsMachine Learning Approach to Enhance Anxiety Diagnosis Using Structural MRI Fails When Classifying Unseen Data: Results from a Large Developmental Cohort Abstract Objective : To investigate the potential of utilizing structural magnetic resonance imaging data in the Brazilian High -Risk Cohort for Mental Conditions to predict anxiety disorders using machine learning. Methods : youth with any anxiety disorder and healthy controls, aged - years at baseline, were assessed at three timep oints between and . The pooled anxiety disorders group comprised participants diagnosed at any assessment with viable MRI scans, while healthy controls had no psychiatric diagnoses. Structural features extracted with FreeSurfer were used as input for a random forest classifier to predict group membership. Twenty percent of the data was used for validation. The algorithm incorporated feature selection, -fold cross -validation, and ComBat harmonization for site differences. Results : The model achieved an accuracy of and an area under the curve of . in the test sample. For the validation sample, the model did not perform better than chance, with metrics close to .. Conclusion : While our model could predict anxiety disorders in th e test sample, it showed variability between folds and did not generalize to the validation sample, performing at chance levels. The present data highlights the limitations of structural MRI in predicting anxiety disorders in this sample. Keywords: Anxiet y, Anxiety disorders, Adolescent, Machine learning, MRI AbstractMachine Learning Approach to Enhance Anxiety Diagnosis Using Structural MRI Fails When Classifying Unseen Data: Results from a Large Developmental Cohort . Introduction Anxiety disorders are the most common mental health disorders in childhood and adolescence, with a worldwide prevalence of . . The natural course of these disorders is var iable, with some individuals experiencing remission while others progress towards chronic, persistent, or recurrent patterns, characterized by fluctuating symptoms . Despite various efforts, current tools cannot reliably predict which course any one individual will follow. In this study, we investigate whether structural magnetic resonance imaging data can be used to predict anxiety disorders by employing machine learning analysis. Recen t studies have attempted to apply machine learning and other predictive models to anxiety disorders. For a model to be clinically useful, it should demonstrate strong validity not only within the original dataset but also when applied to external data. Mod el performance can be evaluated using various metrics , with area under the curve bein g one of the most useful and interpretable metrics. Only a few studies have employed machine learning to predict psychiatric disorders in children and adolescents based on structural MRI, and these studies typically demonstrate modest performance, even when sociodemographic or clinical features are included. Although there is no formal threshold, a clinically useful model should ideally have an AUC greater than ., while an AUC below . indicates poor discrimination, and performances between . and . reflect moderate performance and potentially helpful clinical discrimination . Manuscript File Click here to view linked ReferencesOne study in a longitudinal cohort reached an AUC of . for predicting any future anxiety disorder using only psychometric features . In the same study, the addition of gray matter volumes only improved the prediction of generalized anxiety disorder with an AUC similar to that for pooled anxie ty disorders . In another study that attempted the prediction of psychiatric disorders, only attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and bipolar disorder were predicted with statis tically significant models, with AUCs of . and ., respectively . Notably, in this same study, models for anxiety disorders were not better than chance. Finally, a study that attempted t o predict depression in adolescents using clinical characteristics, life events, personality traits, and brain structure showed an AUC of approximately . in training and validation sets . The mixed findings from these previous studies highlight the challenges of using structural MRI to predict anxiety in youth. However, there is a notable scarcity of studies in this area, with none of these studies conducted on middle -income populations. The Brazilian High-Risk Cohort for Mental Conditions offers a unique opportunity to speak to this literature and evaluate the usefulness of structural MRI to predict anxiety at the individual level. As the largest community cohort spanning from childho od to young adulthood in Latin America, the BHRC assesses anxiety diagnoses across multiple developmental phases, making it an ideal candidate for studying brain alterations associated with anxiety. The present study has two aims: first, to investigate t he potential of utilizing structural MRI data collected as part of the BHRC to predict anxiety disorders using machine learning; and second, to identify the brain regions that were most important for predicting anxiety disorders. We hypothesized that the m odel would be able to discriminate between participants with anxiety diagnoses and those with no psychiatric diagnoses with moderate accuracy. . Methods .. Study design Participants were children and adolescents enrolled in the Brazilian High -Risk Cohort for Mental Conditions , a community -based longitudinal study focused on examining various aspects of child and adolescent mental health and development, in two Brazilian cities, São Paulo and Porto Alegre. These aspects included the use of behavioral assessments, investigation of risk factors, neuropsychological evaluation, genetics, and neuroimaging. Details about the cohort can be found elsewhere . All parents provided signed informed consent, and children offered verbal assent. Upon reaching years of age, participants provided their own informed consent. The Ethics Committees of all three Brazilia n universities involved in the cohort approved the project. Out of the , youth and parents who participated in the baseline assessment from to , , youth and parents took part again in the second assessment from to , and , youth and parents participated in the third assessment from to . This study focused on a subsample of individuals from the BHRCS who underwent scanning protocols – to elaborate, after quality control assessment, the final subsample who provided usable MRI data included children at baseline, at the second assessment, and at the third assessment. Within this neuroimaging subsample, the retention rates for psychopathological measures were for the seco nd assessment and for the third assessment. Notably, the discrepancy in retention rates for neuroimaging data compared to other measures can be attributed to factors such as contraindications for MRI – issues such as refusal or loss to follow -up accounted for only a minority of cases. A subset of participants from the neuroimaging subsample was selected to form the final sample for this study. These individuals were classified into two distinct categories: the pooled anxiety disor ders group and the healthy control group . Diagnostic assessment was conducted using the Brazilian Portuguese version of the Developmental and Well -Being Assessment . For additional details regarding the diagnostic assessment, as well as sociodemographic and cognitive variables, please refer to the Supplementary material. The pooled anxiety disorders category was computed by merging DAWBA clinical diagnoses of all assessed anxiety disorders, including separation anxiety, specific phobia, social phobia, panic disorder, agoraphobia, generalized anxiety disorder, and other anxiety disorders. Those who received an anxiety disorder diagnosis during any of the three assessments an d underwent a viable scan during that assessment were included in the pooled anxiety disorders group. It is worth noting that if a participant received the anxiety diagnosis at multiple time points, we randomly selected one of these moments. The anxiety disorders group consisted of youths. Conversely, the healthy control group consisted of youth who received no DAWBA diagnosis across all three assessments. Exclusion criteria for this group included participants with incomplete DAWBA information at any time point. In cases where healthy controls had undergone multiple MRI sessions, only one of these sessions was included, and this was done randomly. The healthy control group consisted of youths. Since the control group had a higher proportion of ma les than the anxiety group, we stratified the control sample by sex to achieve balance between the groups. This is important because brain volume measures differ between men and women, with men generally having a larger brain volume. This stratification re sulted in a sample of youths in the control group. The final sample consisted of participants (pooled anxiety disorders, n = ; healthy control, n = ) who were randomly allocated to test (n = ; participants in pooled anxiety disorders group and in healthy control group) and validation (n = ; participants in pooled anxiety disorders group and in healthy control group) sets. .. MRI acquisition and processing The same imaging protocols were consistently applied across both sites and the three data points. At each site, the youth participants underwent scanning using a consistent .-T MRI scanner for all assessments. T-weighted scans used t he following parameters: axial slices for whole brain coverage, TR=. ms, TE= .ms, thickness=.mm, flip angle=°; matrix size=, FOV= cm, and NEX=. Imaging acquisitions were repeated whenever participants moved during the procedure in order to ensure that optimal quality was obtained. Image processing and analyses were performed using an automated, non -biased, atlas -based Bayesian segmentation method, applied in FreeSurfer version ... Measures of cortical volume , cortical thi ckness , cortical area , cortical mean curvature , and subcortical volume were computed using FreeSurfer automated subcortical segmentation and the Desikan -Killiany Atlas . Totalizing features. To correct for the effect of head size, the cortical and subcortical volumes were divided by the total intracranial volume and the cortical area was divided by the hemispheric area. The prop ortion method for correcting head size was used due to the easier implementation to avoid data leakage compared to the usual residual method. .. MRI data harmonization Even though the MRI data for this study were collected in similar scanners and identical protocols in both sites, it is the consensus of the field that multi -batch neuroimaging data suffer from non -biological, technical variability that can introduce confo unding effects . Batch effects can be easier to detect than biological effects both by statistical testing and machine learning algorithms . With this in mind, we used the ComBat harmonization method, one of the most widely used techniques . Initially developed for genetics research, the method was later ad apted for neuroimaging and has been shown to effectively remove batch effects while preserving biological information. To this end, we employed the open -source neuroComBat package . Since it is not evident that the site effect impacts all MRI -derived measures uniformly , we performed separate harmonizations for each feature group of the same type (e.g., cortical thickness, subc ortical volume). A key consideration in machine learning is the risk of data leakage when evaluating model performance. Since harmonization is often conducted on the entire dataset, there is a risk of data leakage because validation set information can ina dvertently be used during harmonization and subsequently during classifier training. To address this issue, we included a custom -built transformer in our pipeline to encapsulate the ComBat harmonization within the preprocessing steps of the machine learnin g protocol. .. Data analysis Initially, we employed a combination of feature selection techniques to reduce dimensionality and mitigate multicollinearity. Feature selection is a critical step when dealing with high -dimensional data . By reducing the dimensionality of the data, feature selection helps to eliminate redundant or irrelevant features that can introduce noise and degrade the performance of the model. This process not only enhances the accuracy of the classifier but also improves model interpretability by focusing on the most informative features. Additionally, effective feature selection leads to faster model training times and reduces the risk of overfitting, which is especially impor tant in our case, given the imbalance between the number of features and the available sample size. Specifically, we used the Support Vector Classifier with an L penalty for sparsity, along with the KBest methods using Scikit -Learn . These approaches helped to identify the most relevant features while filtering out those with high collinearity (as illustrated in Supplementary Fig. A). After this preliminary selection, we applied the Boruta algorithm as part of a comprehensive pipeline, which was evaluated using -fold cross -validation . Boruta has been applied in feature selection pipelines in neuroimaging research . This method en hances feature selection by training a Random Forest model on the dataset augmented with shadow features —randomly shuffled versions of the original features. It iteratively evaluates each feature’s importance, comparing it against the highest importance score of the shadow features. The features that were selected in each fold were then entered into a final grid search with a -fold CV on the test set, using a Random Forest classifier. We chose the Random Forest classifier due to its strong performance in h andling high - dimensional data with relatively small sample sizes . The classifier was used to predict membership in either the pooled anxiety disorders gr oup or the healthy control group. The resulting best features were then used to predict diagnosis in an unseen validation set. For completeness, we present the model’s performance on both the test and validation sets, using a comprehensive set of predictiv e metrics. These included the mean area under the precision -recall curve and its standard deviation , mean area under the receiver operating characteristic curve and its SD, along with accuracy, precision, and recall. The statistical sign ificance of the model’s predictive performance was assessed using permutation analysis , implemented via the “permutation_test_score” function from Scikit - Learn. This method estimates the li kelihood that the observed model performance could have occurred by chance. By repeatedly shuffling the target labels and recalculating the model’s performance, the permutation test creates a distribution of scores under the null hypothesis. A p-value is t hen calculated to determine whether the observed performance is statistically significant. Specifically, the median AUC was deemed significantly different from chance if the p-value from the permutation test was less than .. To evaluate feature importan ce in the model, we conducted a SHapley Additive exPlanations analysis. For more detailed information on this analysis, please refer to the Supplementary material. The feature selection and machine learning processes were performed using Python with the Scikit -Learn library module . . Results .. Sociodemographic and cognitive characteristics Table shows the sociodemographic and cognitive characteristics of the study participants in the test and validation sets. Within the test set, the pooled anxiety disorders group had a higher proportion of individuals from Porto Alegre and a higher percentage of self - declared white participants compared to the healthy control group. Ad ditionally, the pooled anxiety disorders group was slightly older, with a mean age of . years, compared to the healthy control group's mean age of . years. There were no significant differences between the groups within and between the test and valid ation sets in terms of sex, socioeconomic status, and IQ. .. Classification performance On the test set, the model achieved a mean AUC of . and a mean AUPR of . , indicating a moderate ability to distinguish between classes. The accur acy on the test set was ., with a precision of . and a recall of ., meaning the model correctly identified of the predicted positive cases and of all actual positives (Table and Fig ). We conducted a permutation test to assess the perfo rmance of the model. After , permutations, the mean shuffled AUC was . , yielding a permutation p -value of .. This indicates that the . AUC of the model significantly outperforms chance levels, providing evidence of its predictive cap ability. However, the corresponding AUC for classification varied considerably across iterations in the training process, suggesting some instability of the model. When evaluated on the validation set, the performance of the model was at chance level. The AUC for the validation sample was ., indicating no discriminatory power. The accuracy was ., with a precision of . and a recall of .. .. Key Features Selected The nine most important features driving the predictive model were the right isthmus – cingulate cortex mean curvature and thickness, left isthmus –cingulate cortex thickness, right precuneus cortex area, left lateral occipital cortex mean curvature, right pars opercularis mean curvature, left paracentral lobule area, left caudal anterior -cingul ate cortex thickness, and left posterior -cingulate cortex volume. The feature importance and summary plots of the SHapley Additive exPlanations analysis can be found in the Supplementary material. Among the selected features, the left paracentral l obule area, right isthmus –cingulate cortex thickness, and right pars opercularis mean curvature had the highest SHAP values, indicating they were the most important for prediction. However, these findings should be interpreted with caution, since the model did not generalize to the validation sample. Furthermore, we used a fixed random seed, but different seed values could result in varying selected features, making it challenging to draw reliable biological conclusions based on the SHAP values. . Discussion The present study aimed to evaluate whether a machine learning algorithm could differentiate between youth with pooled anxiety disorders and healthy controls based on structural MRI data. The pooled anxiety disorders included separation anxiety, specific phobia, social phobia, panic disorder, agoraphobia, generalized anxiety disorder, and other anxiety disorders, which were assessed in a community sample of youth. Our findings indicated that while the model demonstrated moderate performance on the test sa mple that was better than chance, there was significant variability in the cross -validation sets, underscoring the limitations of the model. Additionally, the model failed to generalize effectively to the unseen validation sample. This outcome suggests that while structural MRI features may contain some information related to anxiety disorders, they are insufficient for reliable prediction in our sample. Previous studies have identified various brain regions involved in the neurobiology of anxiety, inclu ding the amygdala, cingulate cortex, prefrontal cortex , hippocampus, precentral gyrus, precuneus, superior temporal gyrus , inferior frontal gyrus , temporal pole, and insula . However, these findings have not been consistently replicated across studies. This inconsistency is highlighted by the ENIGMA -Anxiety working group's mega -analysis, which pooled cortical and subcortical brain structure data from research sites, in cluding individuals with generalized anxiety disorder and healthy controls . Despite this being the largest sample to date, the analysis found no significant main effect of G AD diagnosis on brain structure, including cortical thickness, cortical surface area, and subcortical volume . Therefore, it is possible that features derived from structural MRI might not f ully encapsulate the complexity of anxiety disorders, which are influenced by a combination of neurobiological and environmental factors. It is possible that functional MRI data could be more effective than structural MRI for predicting anxiety. Ho wever, this hypothesis requires further investigation, particularly in youth. Like structural MRI, resting -state fMRI , a scalable fMRI method, continues to produce inconsistent findings regarding the brain correlates of anxiety. A recent meta - analysis revealed no consistent anxiety -related associations when using all seeds in rs -fMRI . While studies with the amygdala as a seed region showed altered connectivity with the medial prefrontal cortex , including portions of the anterior cingulate cortex, this finding was not robust against publication bias . Further, recent studies using machine learning to predic t anxiety -related outcomes in adults, even when using fMRI, are not encouraging. A critical analysis of machine learning studies in anxiety neuroimaging highlighted significant limitations, including a lack of model generalization and small sample sizes . In this analysis, various machine learning methods were applied to multimodal neuroimaging data in an attempt to predict trait anxiety in a large publicly available sample. Although the best -performing model successfully predicted anxiety within the discovery sample, it failed to generalize to an unseen sample. Furthermore, a recent study applied two independent machine learning pipelines on rs -fMRI data from two large - scale trials to predict cognitive behavioral therapy responses . The rs -fMRI data was unable to predict therapy responses above chance level and did not provide incremental predicti ve power beyond sociodemographic and clinical data . Although using neuroimaging data to identify individuals at high risk for anxiety and to identify treatment markers holds significant cli nical potential, the findings from previous research, as well as our own study, have yielded disappointing outcomes. These results point to the fact that machine learning models based on neuroimaging may not be ready to transition to clinical settings. Ind eed, the moderate AUC values reported here fail to generalize to a held out sample – moreover an MRI exam is expensive and not readily available for all. This would only be justified if there was a clear predictive model that generalized to unseen data. The limitations of the present study should be noted. First, we only included one scan per person, selected randomly. This was done to reduce the risk of bias from repeated measures and to prevent overfitting, given the high correlation between scans of the same individual even if collected years apart. However, this approach prevented us from evaluating possible longitudinal associations between brain volumes and anxiety. Second, our sample size may not have been large enough to detect differences between th e groups. Even though our sample size is considerably larger than that of most neuroimaging studies, it is still relatively small for machine learning studies, where model training and evaluation depend heavily on sample size. Larger samples allow for the construction of more robust models and a better assessment of model performance. On the other hand, this is the largest development cohort in Latin America. Third, harmonization was performed within the splits to prevent data leakage, which could have incr eased variability between splits. Lastly, we only included structural MRI data in our analysis. Future research should investigate whether rs -fMRI or other neuroimaging methods perform better in predicting anxiety in youth. . Conclusion In conclusion, our ma chine learning algorithm was unable to differentiate between youth with pooled anxiety disorders and healthy controls using structural MRI data. Despite moderate performance during cross -validation, the model failed to generalize to a previously unseen hol dout validation sample. Our results support previous findings that machine learning models based on neuroimaging are not ready to transition to clinical settings. While our sample size was substantial for neuroimaging studies, future research should inclu de larger sample sizes and explore the predictive performance of other brain measurements, such as functional MRI, to potentially improve accuracy. Data and code availability The data used in this study are part of the Brazilian High -Risk Cohort for Mental Conditions . Access to the data is available to bona fide researchers at https://osf.io/ktzh/ . The code used for the machine learning analysis is also publicly accessible on the same platform at bit.ly/biaetal . Acknowledgments We would like to express our sincere gratitude to Ana Borg Ferreira for her expertise and dedication in conducting various analyses for this study. We are also grateful for the financial support from the Brazilian institutions: the National Institute of Developmental Psychiatry for Children and Adolescents , Centro de Pesquisa e Inovação em Saúde Mental , Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico , and Fundaçã o de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo (Grants: CNPq / - and FAPESP / -). AZ is supported by the NIMH -IRP . Table . Sociodemographic and cognitive characteristics of the test and validation sets Abbreviations: IQ, intelligence coefficient; Significant results are printed in bold. Test set Validation set Between set statistics Pooled Anxiety HC Statistics Pooled Anxiety HC Statistics Sex, n Male χ = . p = . χ = . p = . χ = . p = . Female Skin color, n White χ = . p = . χ = . p = . χ = . p = . Non-white Site, n São Paulo χ = . p = . χ = . p = . χ = . p = . Porto Alegre Socioeconomic status, n Low χ = . p = . χ = . p = . χ = . p = . Middle High Age, mean . . t = -. p = . . . t = . p = . F = . p = . IQ, mean . . t = -. p = . . . t = . p = . F = . p = . Table . Classification performance of random forest classifier in the test and validation samples using structural MRI Metrics, mean Test Validation AUPR . - AUC . . Accuracy . . Precision . . Recall . . Abbreviations: AUPR, area under the precision -recall curve; AUC, area under the curve; SD, standard deviation References . Polanczyk GV, Salum GA, Sugaya LS, Caye A, Rohde LA. Annual research review: A meta -analysis of the worldwide prevalence of mental disorders in children and adolescents. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. Mar;: –. . Beesdo -Baum K, Knappe S. Developmental Epidemiology of Anxiety Disorders. Child Adolesc Psychiatr Clin N Am. Jul;: –. . Poldrack RA, Huckins G, Varoquaux G. Establishment of Best Practices for Evidence for Prediction: A Review. JAMA Psychiatry. May ;:. . Varoquaux G, Colliot O. Evaluating Machine Learning Models and Their Diagnostic Value. In: Colliot O, editor. Machine Learning for Brain Disorders . New York, NY: Springer US; . p. –. . Available from: https://link.springer.com/./ -- - -_ . Alba AC, Agoritsas T, Walsh M, Hanna S, Iorio A, Devereaux PJ, et al. Discrimination and Calibration of Clinical Prediction Models: Users’ Guides to the Medical Literature. JAMA. Oct ;:. . Chavanne AV, Paillère Martinot ML, Penttilä J, Grimmer Y, Conrod P, Stringaris A, et al. Anxiety onset in adolescents: a machine -learning prediction. Mol Psychiatry. Feb;: –. . Gaus R, Pölsterl S, Greimel E, Sc hulte‐Körne G, Wachinger C. Can we diagnose mental disorders in children? A large ‐scale assessment of machine learning on structural neuroimaging of children in the adolescent brain cognitive development study. JCPP Adv. Dec;:e. . Toenders YJ, Kottaram A, Dinga R, Davey CG, Banaschewski T, Bokde ALW, et al. Predicting Depression Onset in Young People Based on Clinical, Cognitive, Environmental, and Neurobiological Data. Biol P sychiatry Cogn Neurosci Neuroimaging. Apr;: –. . Salum GA, Gadelha A, Pan PM, Moriyama TS, Graeff ‐Martins AS, Tamanaha AC, et al. High risk cohort study for psychiatric disorders i n childhood: rationale, design, methods and preliminary results. Int J Methods Psychiatr Res. Mar;: –. . Goodman R, Ford T, Richards H, Gatward R, Meltzer H. The Development and Well‐Being Assessment: Description and Initial Validation of an Integrated Assessment of Child and Adolescent Psychopathology. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. Jul;: –. . Fleitlich -Bilyk B, Goodman R. Prevalence of Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Disorders in Southeast Brazil. J Am Acad Child Adolesc Psychiatry. Jun;: – . . Fischl B, Salat DH, Busa E, Albert M , Dieterich M, Haselgrove C, et al. Whole Brain Segmentation. Neuron. Jan;: –. . Desikan RS, Ségonne F, Fischl B, Quinn BT, Dickerson BC, Blacker D, et al. An automated labeling system for subdividing the human cerebral cortex on MRI scans into gyral based regions of interest. NeuroImage. Jul;: –. . Fortin JP, Cullen N, Sheline YI, Taylor WD, Aselcioglu I, Cook PA, et al. Harmonization of cortical thickness measurements across scanners and sites. NeuroImage. Feb;: –. . Hu F, Chen AA, Horng H, Bashyam V, Davatzikos C, Alexander -Bloch A, et al. Image harmonization: A review of statistical and deep learning methods for removing batch effects and evaluation metrics for effective harmonization. NeuroImage. Jul;:. . Marzi C, Giannelli M, Barucci A, Tessa C, Mascalchi M, Diciotti S. Efficacy of MRI data harmonization in the age of machine learning: a multicenter study across datasets. Sci Data. Jan ;:. . Scheinost D, Noble S, Horien C, Greene AS, Lake EMr, Salehi M, et al. Ten simple rules for predictive modeling of individual differences in neuroimaging. NeuroImage. Jun;: –. . Pedregosa F, Varoquaux G, Gramfort A, Michel V, Thirion B, Grisel O, et al. Scikit - learn: Machine learning in Python. J Mach Learn Res. ;: –. . Kursa MB, Rudnicki WR. Feature Selection with the Boruta Package. J Stat Softw . ;. Available from: http://www.jstatsoft.org/v/i/ . Ma H, Zhang D, Sun D, Wang H, Yang J. Gray and white matter structural examination for diagnosis of major dep ressive disorder and subthreshold depression in adolescents and young adults: a preliminary radiomics analysis. BMC Med Imaging. Sep ;:. . Boulesteix A, Janitza S, Kruppa J, Kön ig IR. Overview of random forest methodology and practical guidance with emphasis on computational biology and bioinformatics. WIREs Data Min Knowl Discov. Nov;: –. . Ojala M, Ga rriga GC. Permutation tests for studying classifier performance. J Mach Learn Res. ;. . Hilbert K, Lueken U, Beesdo -Baum K. Neural structures, functioning and connectivity in Generalized Anxiety Disorder and interaction with neuroendocrine systems: A systematic review. J Affect Disord. Apr;: –. . Kolesar TA, Bilevicius E, Wilson AD, Kornelsen J. Systematic review and meta - analyses of neural structural and functional differences in generalized anxiety disorder and healthy controls using magnetic resonance imaging. NeuroImage Clin. ;:. . Liu X, Klugah -Brown B, Zhang R, Chen H, Zhang J, Becker B. Pathological fear, anxiety and negative affect exhibit distinct neurostructural signatures: evidence from psychiatric neuroimaging meta -analysis. Transl Psychiatry. Sep ;:. . Serra -Blasco M, Radua J, Soriano -Mas C, Gómez -Benlloch A, Porta -Casteràs D, Carulla -Roig M, et al. Structural brain correlates in major depression, anxiety disorders and post -traumatic stress disorder: A voxel -based morphometry meta -analysis. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. Oct;: –. . Harrewijn A, Cardinale EM, Groenewold NA, Bas -Hoogendam JM, Aghajani M, Hilbert K, et al. Cortical and sub cortical brain structure in generalized anxiety disorder: findings from research sites in the ENIGMA -Anxiety Working Group. Transl Psychiatry. Oct ;:. . Zugman A, Jett L, Antonacci C, Winkler AM, Pine DS. A systematic review and meta - analysis of resting -state fMRI in anxiety disorders: Need for data sharing to move the field forward. J Anxiety Disord. Oct;:. . Boeke EA, Holmes AJ, Phelps EA. Toward Robust Anxiety Biomarkers: A Machine Learning Approach in a Large -Scale Sample. Biol Psychiatry Cogn Neurosci Neuroimaging. Aug;: –. . Hilbert K, Böhnlein J, Meinke C, Chavanne AV, Langhammer T, Stumpe L, et al. Lack of evidence for predictive utility from resting state fMRI data for individual exposure - based cognitive behavioral therapy outcomes: A machine learning study in two large multi -site samples in anxiety disorders. NeuroImage. Jul;: . Machine Learning Approach to Enhance Anxiety Diagnosis Using Structural MRI Fails When Classifying Unseen Data: Results from a Large Developmental Cohort Figure captions Fig. Flowchart of Participant Selection. Abbreviation: BHRC, Brazilian High -Risk Cohort for Mental Conditions. Fig. ROC curve for all folds and their mean. Abbreviation: ROC, receiver operating characteristic. Figure Click here to access/download;Figure ( dpi and editable format);Figure_captions.docx Figure Click here to access/download;Figure ( dpi and editable format);figure.pngFigure Click here to access/download;Figure ( dpi and editable format);figure.png Supplementary Material Click here to access/download Supplementary Material Supplementary_Material_Manuscript_Machine_Learning _Approach.docx Machine Learning Approach to Enhance Anxiety Diagnosis Using Structural MRI Fails When Classifying Unseen Data: Results from a Large Developmental Cohort Ana Beatriz Ravagnani Salto,, Felipe Azank, Marcos Cesar Voltolini, Victoria Fogaça Doretto,, Carina de Giusti, Andrea P. Jackowski, Luis Augusto Rohde,,, Giovanni A. Salum,,, Pedro M. Pan,, Euripedes Constantino Miguel,, James F. Leckman, André Zugman . Department & Institute of Psychiatry, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sã o Paulo , São Paulo, SP, Brazil. . Centro de Pesquisa e Inovação em Saúde Mental , São Paulo, SP, Brazil. . Universidade de São Paulo , São Paulo, SP, Brazil. . Pines LLC, New Castle, DE, USA. . The Laboratory of Integrative Neuroscience , Universidade Federal de São Paulo , São Paulo, Brazil. . ADHD Outpatient Program & Developmental Psychiatry Program, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. . Medical Co uncil UNIFAJ & UNIMAX, Jaguariúna, SP, Brazil . . Department of Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul , Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil. . Child Mind Institute, New York, New York, USA. . Yale Child Study Centre, Yale School of Medicine, Yale Univ ersity, CT, USA. Title Page . Section on Development and Affective Neuroscience, Emotion and Development Branch, National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of Health, MD, Bethesda, USA.